<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN" "ibm-task.dtd">
<task id="cfg_brocade_switches" xml:lang="en-us" >
<title>Configuring Brocade switches for monitoring</title>
<!--To optimize search results, add tags that clarify product name, target platform, or other contexts. To enable the tags, right-click, select Refactoring > Toggle Comment.-->
<!--<titlealts><navtitle></navtitle><searchtitle></searchtitle></titlealts>-->
<!--Put your short description next; used for first paragraph and abstract.-->
<shortdesc>Configure Brocade switches for monitoring through a direct connection. <keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" audience="onpremonly"/><keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ksif_short" audience="offpremonly"/> establishes this
connection by using the Brocade REST API and requires Fabric OS 8.2.1 or later.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>Configuring <indexterm>Brocade switches</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><indexterm>Brocade switches</indexterm> Configuration</indexterm>
<indexterm>Monitoring <indexterm>Brocade switches</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<!--To optimize PDF retrievability, add prolog and indexing tags that help crystalize why users should be looking up this topic (purpose, task, and what they will learn)-->
<!--<prolog><metadata><keywords><indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata></prolog>-->
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>Before you add a Brocade switch for monitoring in <keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" audience="onpremonly"/><keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ksif_short" audience="offpremonly"/>, you must configure it
for HTTPS and set up the proper user role.</p>
</context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>To enhance security, configure a switch for HTTPS. This action disables HTTP access.</cmd><info>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Option 1</dt>
<dd>Create a self-signed HTTPS certificate by using the <cmdname>seccertmgnt generate</cmdname>
command.<codeblock>seccertmgmt generate -cert [https | extn -keypair_tag keypair_tag] [-type [rsa | dsa | ecdsa]][-keysize value] 
[-hash type] [-years value] [-f]</codeblock><p>For
example:<codeblock>switch:admin> seccertmgmt generate -cert https</codeblock></p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Option 2</dt>
<dd>Upload a CA-signed certificate by using the <cmdname>seccertmgmt import</cmdname>
command.<codeblock>seccertmgmt import -cert [fcap | commoncert | https | radius | ldap | syslog | extn -keypair_tag keypair_tag | mgmtip] 
-protocol [scp | ftp]-ipaddr IP_address -remotedir remote_directory-certname certificate_name-cacert preimported_local_ca_cert-login login_name 
-password password</codeblock></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>For more information, see <xref href="https://docs.broadcom.com/doc/FOS-82x-Command-RM"
format="html" scope="external">Brocade® Fabric OS® Command Reference Manual, 8.2.x</xref>.</p>
</info>
</step>
<step><cmd>Configure a user with required roles for the switches.</cmd><substeps>
<substep><cmd>To collect metadata about a switch, <keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" audience="onpremonly"/><keyword
conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ksif_short" audience="offpremonly"/> requires a user
account with "user" or "admin" role. If the switch is virtualized, the user must also have a "user"
or "admin" role for the chassis and have access to all the Logical Fabric IDs 1 -
128.</cmd></substep>
<substep><cmd>To create a user with the required roles, run one of the following commands.</cmd><info>
<ul>
<li>For virtualized switches, run the <cmdname>userconfg --add</cmdname> command with the
<cmdname>-r role</cmdname>, <cmdname>-l LF_ID_LIST</cmdname>, and <cmdname>-c chassis_role</cmdname>
options.<codeblock>virtualizedswitch:admin> userconfig --add user_name -r user -l 1-128 -c user -p MyPassword</codeblock></li>
<li>For non-virtualized switches, run the <cmdname>userconfg --add</cmdname> command with the
<cmdname>-r role</cmdname>
option.<codeblock>physicalswitch:admin> userconfig --add user_name -r user -p MyPassword</codeblock></li>
</ul>
</info></substep>
<substep><cmd>To change the role for an existing user, run one of the following commands.</cmd><info>
<ul>
<li>For virtualized switches, run the <cmdname>userconfig --change</cmdname> command with the
<cmdname>-r</cmdname>, <cmdname>-l</cmdname>, or <cmdname>-c</cmdname> options along with the
<cmdname>userconfig --addlf</cmdname> command to expand the list of Logical Fabric IDs.<p>For
example, run the following command to change the chassis role and the list of Logical Fabric IDs
that the user is allowed to
access.<codeblock>virtualizedswitch:admin> userconfig --change user_name -c admin -l 128</codeblock><codeblock>virtualizedswitch:admin> userconfig --addlf user_name -c admin -l 1-128</codeblock></p></li>
<li>For non-virtualized switches, run the <cmdname>userconfig --change</cmdname> command with the
<cmdname>-r</cmdname>
option.<codeblock>physicalswitch:admin> userconfig--change user_name -r admin</codeblock></li>
</ul>
</info></substep>
<substep><cmd>To verify the roles, run the <cmdname>userconfig --show</cmdname> command. Add the
<cmdname>-a</cmdname> option to list all users on the switch.</cmd></substep>
</substeps></step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
