<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference id="cfg_calc_licensing" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>How licensing values are calculated</title>
<shortdesc>Learn about how the capacity to be licensed and the number of enclosure licenses that are
needed for your storage systems are calculated.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>license<indexterm>model<indexterm>enclosure</indexterm><indexterm>capacity</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>enclosure license model</indexterm>
<indexterm>capacity license model<indexterm>category of drives</indexterm><indexterm>uncategorized
drives</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section id="calc_licenses_enclosures">
<title>Calculating the number of enclosure licenses for your storage systems</title>
<p>For each enclosure, the number of licenses that are needed is calculated by using the following
rules. Calculations are rounded up to the nearest whole number.<ol>
<li>The number of slots in the enclosure divided by 25. </li>
<li>The sum of the physical capacity of the disks in the enclosure divided by 500 TiB.</li>
<li>The higher number from rule 1 and rule 2 is the number of licenses that are needed for the
enclosure. </li>
</ol></p>
<p>Examples of the enclosure licensing calculations. </p>
<p>Rule 1 - Number of slots in the storage enclosures (or modules or expansions) that are managed:<ul>
<li>Enclosure with 12 slots requires 1 license.</li>
<li>Enclosure with 92 slots requires 4 licenses.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Rule 2 - Sum of the physical capacity of the disks in the enclosure:<ul>
<li>Enclosure with 200 TiB requires 1 license.</li>
<li>Enclosure with 1,250 TiB requires 3 licenses.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Example of a storage system with 4 enclosures:<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1* 1* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Enclosure</stentry>
<stentry>Slots</stentry>
<stentry>Rule 1 - Licenses required</stentry>
<stentry>Capacity (TiB)</stentry>
<stentry>Rule 2 - Licenses required</stentry>
<stentry>Licenses required</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>Enclosure 1</stentry>
<stentry>28</stentry>
<stentry>2</stentry>
<stentry><tm trademark="400" tmtype="reg">400</tm></stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry>2</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Enclosure 2</stentry>
<stentry>92</stentry>
<stentry>4</stentry>
<stentry>3,700</stentry>
<stentry>8</stentry>
<stentry>8</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Enclosure 3</stentry>
<stentry>60</stentry>
<stentry>3</stentry>
<stentry>1,750</stentry>
<stentry>4</stentry>
<stentry>4</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Enclosure 4</stentry>
<stentry>16</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry>225</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry>Total enclosure licenses required</stentry>
<stentry>15</stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable></p>
</section>
<section>
<title>Calculating the capacity to be licensed for your storage systems</title>
<p>Capacity to be licensed is the usable capacity of the storage systems that are being monitored
and that is made available for storage consumption. Apart from <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kelastic_st_short" /> and <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kcloudobject" />, the capacity to be licensed is based on
the usable capacity of the RAID arrays on the storage system. <note type="other" othertype="Information about the calculation of capacity to be licensed">
<ul>
<li>Capacity that is reserved for overheads, such as RAID management is not included. </li>
<li>Data reductions savings at the storage system level, such as compression and deduplication, are
not included. For storage systems that use data reduction technologies, the capacity to be licensed
is the usable capacity, not the effective capacity. </li>
<li>Capacity to be licensed is the total capacity of the storage system after RAID is applied and
spare disks and capacity are deducted. So, capacity to be licensed is the capacity that can be
provisioned to servers, when no over-provisioning is used. Any form of cache, for example, DRAM,
SSD, or flash storage is not included, and the capacity to be licensed is less than the raw capacity
of the storage system.</li>
</ul>
</note></p>
<p>Refer to the following information for details about how capacity to be licensed is calculated
for different storage systems:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Storage virtualization systems</dt>
<dd>Capacity to be licensed is calculated for the following storage virtualizers:<ul>
<li>Storage systems that run <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kspectrum_virtualize" />, such as <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ksvc_full" /> and <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kflashsystem_9100" />.</li>
<li>Non-<tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> storage systems such as <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/hitachi_vsp_short" />.</li>
</ul><p>A storage virtualizer includes capacity from other storage systems. Capacity from back-end
storage systems that are not monitored by <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" audience="onpremonly" /><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/tpc_saas_short" audience="offpremonly" /> is counted in the capacity to be licensed of the virtualizer. Capacity from
back-end storage systems that are monitored by <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" audience="onpremonly" /><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/tpc_saas_short" audience="offpremonly" /> is not counted.
The license for the monitored back-end storage is recorded separately and has its own record on the
<wintitle>Licensing</wintitle> page.</p><p>For storage virtualizers that have internal capacity,
such as <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kez_storage_full" />, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kflashsystem_7200_short" />, and <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kflashsystem_9100" />, the capacity to be licensed is
calculated as:
<codeblock>sum of the physical capacity of the internal RAID arrays + 
sum of the capacity of the external MDisks from unmonitored back-end systems</codeblock></p><p>For
storage virtualizers that do not have internal capacity, such as some models of <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ksvc_full" />, the capacity to be licensed is calculated
as:<codeblock>sum of the capacity of the external MDisks from unmonitored back-end systems
</codeblock></p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Block and file storage systems</dt>
<dd>The capacity to be licensed is the sum of the physical capacity of the RAID arrays on the
storage system. <note type="other" othertype="Exception">For <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kflashsystem_a9000_short" />, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kflashsystem_a9000r_short" />, and <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kixss" />, the capacity to be licensed is the overall
physical capacity of the storage system.</note></dd>
<dd id="smis_devices">For the following storage systems, the capacity and enclosure license
information is not calculated because <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" audience="onpremonly" /><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/tpc_saas_short" audience="offpremonly" /> does not collect the RAID array information from the device. <ph otherprops="offpremonly">The value <codeph>Unavailable</codeph> is shown in the Capacity to be
Licensed column on the <wintitle>Managed Capacity</wintitle> page.</ph><ph otherprops="onpremonly">The value <codeph>Unavailable</codeph> is shown in the SCU and Capacity to be Licensed columns on
the <wintitle>Licensing</wintitle> page.</ph>
<ul>
<!--<li><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/k3parss"/></li>HPE 3PAR was dropped at the end of 5.4.0 cycle-->
<li>Block and file storage systems that are managed by SMI-S providers. For example:<ul>
<li>NetApp Data ONTAP 8.1</li>
<li><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kemc"> </keyword><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kvmax" />, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kvnx" />, and <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kvnxe" /></li>
<li><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/hitachi_vsp_short" /> F series</li>
</ul></li>
</ul><p audience="onpremonly">To get a complete picture of your licensing requirements, complete the
following tasks for these storage systems: <ul>
<li>If the storage system is licensed by enclosure, you must manually enter the number of enclosure
licenses. The value is then automatically included in the Total Enclosure Licenses value in the
summary area at the top of the page.</li>
<li>If the storage system is licensed by capacity, you must manually calculate the SCUs that you
need for the storage system. Then, add that value to the Total SCU value in the summary area.</li>
</ul></p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kelastic_st" /> storage systems </dt>
<dd>The capacity to be licensed is the sum of the capacity of the Network Shared Disks (NSDs) that
are assigned to the file system pools. <p>NSD capacity from back-end storage systems that are not
monitored by <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" audience="onpremonly" /><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/tpc_saas_short" audience="offpremonly" /> is
included.</p><p>The following capacity is not included in the capacity to be licensed:<ul>
<li>NSDs that are not assigned to a pool.</li>
<li>NSD capacity from back-end storage systems that are monitored by <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" audience="onpremonly" /><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/tpc_saas_short" audience="offpremonly" />. The license for
the monitored back-end storage is recorded separately and has its own record on the
<wintitle>Licensing</wintitle> page.</li>
<li>NSD capacity on external pools.</li>
</ul>For <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kelastic_st" /> storage systems that are
configured for file and object storage, the capacity to be licensed for the object storage is
included in the file system pool capacity and is not counted separately. <note type="other" othertype="Don't forget to assign the storage category for your file system pools" audience="onpremonly">The storage category is based on the technology type of the drives in the
pool, for example, Storage Class Memory and Flash, and is used in the calculation of SCU usage. To
ensure that the correct storage category is used, assign the storage category on the
<wintitle>Licensing</wintitle> page. <p>If the storage category is not set, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" /> assumes, for the calculations of SCU usage, that
Category 1 drives are used.</p></note><note type="other" othertype="Calculating enclosure licenses for IBM Spectrum Scale" audience="onpremonly">For <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kelastic_st" /> storage systems that are licensed by
enclosure, you need one enclosure license for each NSD server node that is connected to
NSDs.</note></p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kcloudobject" /> systems</dt>
<dd>The capacity to be licensed is the sum of the capacity of the COS <tm trademark="Slicestor" tmtype="reg">Slicestor</tm> nodes in <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kcloudobject" />.<note type="other" othertype="Don't forget to assign the storage category for your virtual COS Slicestor nodes" audience="onpremonly">The storage category is based on the technology type of the drives in the
node, for example, Storage Class Memory and Flash, and is used in the calculation of SCU usage. A
COS <tm trademark="Slicestor" tmtype="reg">Slicestor</tm> node can be a server or a virtual
appliance. For the server nodes, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" />
automatically assigns the Near-Line drive category. For virtual appliances, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" /> cannot determine the storage category of the drives
in the node. <p>For the calculation of SCU usage for the node, <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc" /> assumes that Category 1 drives are used in the
virtual appliance. To ensure that the correct storage category is used in the calculations, assign
the storage category on the <wintitle>Licensing</wintitle> page for each virtual node.</p></note><dl audience="onpremonly">
<dlentry>
<dt>Calculating enclosure licenses for <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kcloudobject" /></dt>
<dd>To calculate the number of enclosure licenses, the same rules that are specified in <xref href="#cfg_calc_licensing/calc_licenses_enclosures" format="dita" /> are used.<p>For
the calculation:<ul>
<li>Each COS <tm trademark="Slicestor" tmtype="reg">Slicestor</tm> node is treated as an enclosure. </li>
<li>Instead of enclosure slots, the calculation uses the number of drives in the node. </li>
<li>The capacity is based on the total capacity of the drives in the node.</li>
</ul></p><p>Example of <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/kcloudobject" /> with 3 COS
<tm trademark="Slicestor" tmtype="reg">Slicestor</tm> nodes:<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1* 1* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Nodes</stentry>
<stentry>Drives</stentry>
<stentry>Rule 1 - Licenses required</stentry>
<stentry>Capacity (TiB)</stentry>
<stentry>Rule 2 - Licenses required</stentry>
<stentry>Licenses required</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>Node 1</stentry>
<stentry>16</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry><tm trademark="400" tmtype="reg">400</tm>
</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Node 2</stentry>
<stentry>64</stentry>
<stentry>3</stentry>
<stentry>2,<tm trademark="400" tmtype="reg">400</tm></stentry>
<stentry>5</stentry>
<stentry>5</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Node 3</stentry>
<stentry>32</stentry>
<stentry>2</stentry>
<stentry>350</stentry>
<stentry>1</stentry>
<stentry>2</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry />
<stentry>Total enclosure licenses required </stentry>
<stentry>8</stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable></p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference><?tm 1617468675109 8 Slicestor||IBM||400 ?>
