<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN" "ibm-task.dtd">
<task id="cfg_add_SSL_webserver_keystore" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Adding the SSL certificate for the LDAP server to the web server keystore that uses the
IKEYCMD command</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Adding the SSL certificate for the LDAP server to the web server keystore using the
IKEYCMD command</navtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc> To secure communications between the <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> server and the LDAP server, you must add the
SSL certificate from the LDAP server to the web server keystore for <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" />.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<keyword>SSL certificate ldap</keyword>
<indexterm>SSL certificate ldap <indexterm>adding SSL certificates to web server
keystore</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>web server keystore<indexterm>adding SSL certificates to web server
keystore</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<taskbody>
<context>
<p>
<note type="tip">Contact your LDAP administrator and obtain the SSL certificate for your LDAP
server. The SSL certificate must be in the form of a Base64-encoded file. </note>
</p>
<p>You can use the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Key Management (IKEYCMD) command to add
the LDAP SSL certificate to the <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> web
server keystore.</p>
</context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>Copy the Base64-encoded file to the location of your <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> server.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Log on to the <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> server with
administrative privileges.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Open a command prompt and go to
<filepath><varname>installation_dir</varname>/jre/bin</filepath> directory.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Choose one of these options to add the SSL certificate for the LDAP server to the keystore for
the web server:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice><tm trademark="Windows" tmtype="tm">For Windows</tm> operating
systems:<codeblock>ikeycmd -cert -add -db <varname>installation_dir</varname>\wlp\usr\servers\webServer\resources
\security\key.p12 -pw <varname>password</varname> -label <varname>label</varname> -file <varname>LDAP SSL certificate</varname></codeblock></choice>
<choice><tm trademark="AIX" tmtype="reg">For AIX</tm> and <tm trademark="Linux" tmtype="reg">Linux</tm> operating
systems:<codeblock>./ikeycmd -cert -add -db <varname>installation_dir</varname>/wlp/usr/servers/webServer/resources
/security/key.p12 -pw <varname>password</varname> -label <varname>label</varname> -file <varname>LDAP SSL certificate</varname></codeblock></choice>
</choices>
<info>Where the <varname>label</varname> value is for the LDAP SSL certificate you are adding to the
<keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> web server keystore. The
<varname>password</varname> value is the password that is associated with the keystore. The
<varname>default </varname> value for this password is <varname>default</varname>. The <varname>LDAP
SSL certificate </varname> value is the Base64-encoded file that contains the SSL certificate from
your LDAP server.</info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Restart the <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> web server.</cmd>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Choose one of these options to verify that the SSL certificate for LDAP was added to the
keystore for the web server:</cmd>
<choices>
<choice><tm trademark="Windows" tmtype="tm">For Windows</tm> operating
systems:<codeblock>ikeycmd -cert -list -db <varname>installation_dir</varname>\wlp\usr\servers\webServer
\resources\security\key.p12 -pw <varname>password</varname></codeblock></choice>
<choice><tm trademark="AIX" tmtype="reg">For AIX</tm> and <tm trademark="Linux" tmtype="reg">Linux</tm> operating
systems:<codeblock>./ikeycmd -cert -list -db <varname>installation_dir</varname>/wlp/usr/servers/webServer
/resources/security/key.p12 -pw <varname>password</varname></codeblock></choice>
</choices>
</step>
</steps>
<result>The SSL certificate from the LDAP server was added to the <keyword conref="fqz0_entities.dita#fqz0_entities/ktpc_short" /> web server keystore to enable secure
communications.</result>
</taskbody>
<related-links>
<link keyref="fqz0_r_start_stop_tpc_services" otherprops="helpsonly" />
<link href="fqz0_r_start_stop_tpc_services.dita" otherprops="infocenteronly" />
<link href="fqz0_r_start_stop_tpc_services.dita" otherprops="adminguideonly" />
<link href="cfg_export_SSL_LDAPServer_file.dita" />
<link href="cfg_export_SSL_LDAPServer_ActiveDirectory.dita" />
</related-links>
</task><?tm 1617468674577 7 Windows||Linux||IBM||AIX ?>
